adr:Hierarchical Namespaces (#441)
elastisys/compliantkubernetes: docs/adr/0026-hnc.md

> # HNC decisions

Author: Fixed
I used `parent` = `environment-name`

* Status: accepted
* Deciders: arch meeting
* Date: 2022-09-29

## Context and Problem Statement

As of apps v0.25 the HNC namespaces are available.
Should we keep the user_namespaces variable available? What to do with our existing environments?

## Decision Drivers

* We want to reduce the number of tickets related to namespace creation.

> * We want to make the operator life easier.

Reviewer: I can't remember why we didn't go for `default` but there was a really good reason. Can we add it as decision driver? Something like:

* HNC recommends against using `default`

Author: It is not HNC that recommends but is what we discovered that when using the default namespace as the default root HNC, the user could edit the kubernetes svc in the default namespace

## Considered Options

> * Remove the user_namespaces variable available from apps.

Author: Fixed
Sounds better this way
Thx

* Keep the user_namespaces variable available.
* Create e new HNC default namespace and migrate all existing namespaces to the new HNC default namespace.
* Create a new HNC namespace but do not migrate the existing namspaces to it and inform customers that they can do it if they choose to.

## Decision Outcome

> Chosen options: Keep the user_namespaces variable available. & Create a new HNC namespace but do not migrate the existing namspaces to it and inform customers that they can do it if they choose to.

Author: This sounds better
Thx

### Positive Consequences

* We make the operator life easier by not having to handle namespace requests tickets
* Operator does not have to do the migration
* We offer flexibility to our customers in choosing if they want to keep existing non-HNC namespaces and from further on use the new HNC namspace to create new namspaces on their own.
* Increase customer autonomy

### Negative Consequences

* Some snowflakiness will exist by keeping both the non-HNC and HNC namespaces

> * Some customers might get confused at the begining by not knowing wich namespaces are HNC and which are non-HNC.

Reviewer: Codespell says so, I wouldn't have noticed. :smile:

```suggestion
* Some customers might get confused at the beginning by not knowing which namespaces are HNC and which are non-HNC.
```

Author: Fixed
I saw it yesterday but I left it to fix it with the comments I was expecting :)

## Recommendation to Operators

Do not use the "default" namespace as the name of the default HNC namespace

> Exclude the core and the AMS namespaces from HNC as we do not want those to be managed by HNC.

Reviewer: Do not migrate customer to the new default root Hierarchical Namespace, but do inform the customers that they have the choice to migrate to it, if desired.
